hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions Dima saw a
strange timepiece in the museum
it had no numbers and it may have been
rotated out of position also the second
minute and our hands had the same length
but it operated like a standard
timepiece what time was it
this problem was given to 13 and 14 year
olds in Russia thanks to ye Gore nazarov
for suggesting this pause the video if
you'd like to give it a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to solve this problem
[Music]
so what time was showing let's work this
out logically well label the hands as a
B and C notice that hands a and C are
pointing exactly two major marks on the
dial thus if either a or C were the our
hand then the minute hand and the second
hand would have to overlap at exactly
the same number twelve and the clock
would only have two different hands
showing but that's not the case
consequently we can conclude that B has
to be the hour hand as it is not
pointing exactly to a major marking next
since both a and C are pointing exactly
two major markings the minute hand is a
whole number thus the second hand must
be at the number 12 to indicate zero
seconds so now we have two cases to
consider one case is that a is the
second hand and it is pointing to 12 we
can label around to the hour hand of B
now C is the minute hand and it's
pointing to the number 2 in this case
the time is 10 minutes past the hour but
notice that the hour hand B in that case
should only be 1/6 of the way between
the hours of 6 & 7
it should be closer to 6 than it is to 7
as shown it's closer to 7 so this case
cannot be true the other case is that a
is the minute hand and C is the second
hand so C is pointing at 12 that means a
is pointing at 10 and B is between the
hours of 4:00 and 5:00 the time will be
50 minutes past the hour and notice the
hand B is actually 5/6 of the way to the
next hour marking so this works out
exactly and that's the answer B is the
hour hand a is the minute hand C is the
second hand and the time is 450
furthermore we might conclude that the
time is 4:50 p.m. because the museum is
open not many museums are open at 4:00
EAM it's pretty neat that you can figure
out the time just from these hands
without any other markings thanks for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]